So here are a few additional things
you need to know
about KMS regarding the CISSP exam.
So, first of all,
you can not change your encryption key used by an EBS
volume, if you wanted to do so,
you will need to create an EBS snapshot,
and then you create a new EBS volume.
And from it, you specify a new KMS key.
So this is very similar to what we've seen.
We would create a snapshot
from an already encrypted EBS volume,
which would have the same CMK being used.
But then when we create a new volume,
we can decrypt and reencrypt it with a new CMK.
And this is how we will do to switch the KMS key
from one volume, from one volume to another.
The second thing that we've seen is around sharing KMS
snapshots that are encrypted across accounts.
So to do so,
we need to share it with your target accounts,
but also create a key policy to allow the target accounts,
to access our snapshot.
So here is what's happening.
We're going to create a key policy on our CMK to allow
another accounts so specified in it,
to do the encrypt decrypt operations and so on.
And therefore, when we share our, for example,
RDS DB snapshot, that's encrypted,
the other accounts can access it because the CMK accessible.
And therefore we can create a DB instance from that
encrypted snapshot into our other accounts.
Something we haven't seen yet is around KMS key deletions.
So you can schedule a CMK for deletion,
and then you have a waiting period
between seven and 30 days.
This is in case you want to cancel the deletion because you
realize that you still need the CMK.
So when you go into a deletion,
the first state is going to be pending deletion
during the waiting period
and during that waiting period,
this CMK can not be used for any cryptographic operations.
That means that if you have an objective, Amazon is free.
That's a KMS encrypted with that CMK then this is going to
fail, and this is something the exam will test you on.
And if the key is planned for rotation,
then it will not happen.
Now, if you realize that somehow
you are indeed using that same carrier
you want to use it,
then you can console the key deletion.
And so this is why it's always very important to maybe
disable your key first, instead of deleting it,
if you're not sure.
And so cool automation you can build is around figuring out
whether or not after being deleted.
The key is still being used.
So for this, when we do,
and we delete the key
and it goes into the pending deletion state,
we're going to set up a CloudTrail on top of it.
So that's for example,
if a user wants to use a cryptographic operation for our
key, for example, a decrypt or an encrypt operation,
then the API goal is going to be denied.
And we are going to log that API call into CloudTrail.
Now CloudTrail will send its logs into CloudWatch logs,
and we can set up a metric filter to look for the keywords.
The key is pending deletion.
Now, if this metric filter
has any occurrences other than one,
then set up a CloudWatch alarm and trigger it
to for example,
send us an SMS alert into a email notification.
And with this whole schedule what's going to happen is that
every time you delete a CMK and you implement this solution,
in case someone tries to use a CMK,
you're going to receive an alert and then you can drill down
and maybe understand that this CMK can not be deleted
because it is still being used by someone else,
which is a cool type of automation.
So that's it,
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.